The next thing that we're gonna do is
we are going to send a command here.
So let's get into the Slack utility, and
we will import first
"parse" from "querystring".
Because "querystring" allows us
to get a form-encoded body,
or what exactly,
I can't remember what it's called.
But it's where the key is set with an
equal sign and then the value after that.
And so this is gonna allow us to parse
that out and actually use those values.
Then we're going to import
our slackApi command
from the util that we just created.
And we're gonna create a new
function in here called
handleSlashCommand, slash command,
not slack.
My goodness, slash command.
And that's gonna accept a payload, and
the payload is a SlackSlashCommandPayload.
And again, that's there so
that we get autocomplete, not for
any other real reason.
So the way that I want this to
work is to keep this kind of easy
to debug later on we're putting the slash
command logic into this function.
And then interactivity, which is
a different functionality that we're gonna
build later, will be in a separate
function, and it'll help us with keeping
track of kinda what's happening
without having one big, long function.
But I still want it to be
scannable within the same file, so
we'll keep them all in the same file.
We'll just have a few functions in there
to help us separate things out a bit.
So I'm gonna use a switch case,
I know people have feelings about these,
I think they're great for
this particular type of setup.
We are gonna look at what the command that
came in is for our slash command, and
then change the behavior based
on what that command is.
So I'm gonna look for
if the command is foodfight,
then I want to get a response
by awaiting the slackApi.
And we're gonna use chat.postmessage.
And you can see because we specified
what the endpoint could be,
it autocompletes for us.
And that's really the only
thing that keeps me using
TypeScript, is I just I
love that autocomplete.
So next we're gonna grab out of
the payload we want the channel ID, so
using the autocomplete to get there.
The channel ID is also available
if you look in your Slack
instance, you can find
the channel ID down here.
That's so if you wanna always send
the message to the same channel you can
come and grab this and hard code it,
as opposed to sending it to the channel
where the message came from.
In this case, we're gonna send it
back where the message came from.
And then we wanna send in some text,
and for
now let's just do some hard coded text so
that we can make sure this actually works.
So we get a response, and then some
really lightweight error checking here.
So if the response that
comes back is not okay,
we're gonna console log the response
just so we can see what happened.
And then we're gonna break
out of our switch command.
And then as a default we'll
say just return a new
status code, and that's gonna be a 200.
But we are going to say
the Command payload.command.
Is not recognized.
So that way if somehow you were able to
send a command here that isn't part of
the registered commands you'll get a note
that it doesn't work, something is wrong.
To actually use this, we are going to
grab the event that gets sent in through
the Netlify functions, this gives us
access to things like what the payload is.
And then I'm going to handle the slash
commands by grabbing the body.
So the body is going to be,
we're gonna use that parse and
get event.body, or we'll just make it 0.
And then I'm gonna coerce it to be
a slack payload because I want that
autocomplete again.
And we'll be able to validate that this
is a Slack payload when we get to this
part where we're actually
validating requests.
But for now, we just want that to work
the way that we expect it to work.
And then we are going to
check if body.command.
Then we want to return handleSlashCommand,
and
we're gonna put in the body
as a SlackSlashCommand.
And that is gonna be the whole thing,
right, because it's going to return.
I forgot a piece.
Because we have our default
here where we're returning.
But we also wanna make sure that at
the end, we return a status code or
an object, sorry, that's got a status
code of 200 and a body that's just empty.
So if it's successful,
we don't need to send anything back
because the chat message will appear.
If it's not successful, we want to give
some feedback to just the person who ran
the command to let them know like,
hey, your command didn't work.
So in this case we will
just do this here and
send a 200 as kind of a confirmation
that the command worked.
If we don't send this, then Slack will
time out and say something went wrong.
So now we've got this set up and
running, and let's actually try it.
So I'm gonna run a food fight,
And it didn't like it.
Here we go, we got an error,
not in channel.
Ah-ha, so
that means that our bot has to be added to
the channel before we can actually use it.
So let's add apps to channel, and
then I'm gonna grab this food fight.
I'm gonna show what I did there
cuz I just kinda did that fast.
But I started typing add and
it shows this context menu of add
apps to channel, so grab that.
And then here's the bot,
I'm gonna add it, and
now food fight has been
added to this channel.
And this will need to be done for any
channel where you want the bot to work.
Typically speaking, what I've done is for
my teams I have the bot run almost
exclusively in my team's channel.
But for some things like the context
reminders if somebody's posting
requests all over the place, you might
wanna install it to the entire workspace,
which you can do.
There's some ways that you can have
the bot auto add itself if you give it
that permission.
And we're not gonna cover that today
because I don't think it's necessary
unless you've got
extenuating circumstances.
But otherwise, just add it in any
channel where you wanna use it.
And now if we run Food Fight again,
there it goes.
This is posted publicly from
the Food Fight app as a chat message.
So that's the kind of
first major takeaway here,
is how to get a bot to post
to your Slack channel.
And this can be done outside of a Slack
command, or out of a slash command.
You can have the bot post to
your channel at any time,
which is how we'll do
the cron job later on.
But using a slash command to
post some feedback as the bot is
a great way to just make it feel
like part of the experience.
I am asking a question in the channel, and
the bot gives me feedback on
the thing that I've asked.
That feels the exact same as if
it was a member of the team,
but now it's more consistent and
it's built into the process.
Even at this point,
a slash command is really,
really useful without
building anything else.
Because you can use this to
say slash open issues, and
then you can go hit the GitHub API and
pull every open issue for
repos that your team is responsible for.
You can make API requests in between
getting the slash command and
sending that chat response, right?
So you can do just about anything here,
and that's really, really powerful.
So to actually show how this works,
let's just really quickly put
in something that won't stick.
We're just gonna play with it for
a minute, and
I'm going to add a joke in here.
So let's get a joke, and
that's going to be the output
of a fetch command that will
go to icanhazdadjoke.com,
which just gives you a random dad joke.
And that will use headers, and
we just wanna return the accept
header of text plain.
Because we're not gonna
parse the JSON object,
we just want it to send
us back a plain old joke.
So then, in our response here,
we can use the await joke.text to
get that response as plain text.
And so this could be, you can imagine,
kind of anything, right?
I can call anything that's got
an API endpoint, I can grab, and
then if I wanted to I could do far
more parsing on the JSON object or
anything else to then return
this in the chat message.
But for now if I go and
use this, anytime you run
this it's going to give
you a new dad joke.
So it's a very nice workflow in
chat if there's something you need
to check all the time.
Rather than saying yeah,
let me go check that for you, and
getting out of your flow,
moving into some dashboard somewhere, and
then coming back and
copy pasting a screenshot.
You can take a little bit of time to put
together one of these slash commands and
just say status, and have it print
that screenshot right there for you.
Or give you the top stats for
whatever thing, find out who's on call.
Whatever the things are that you find
yourself checking frequently in your team,
you're able to do that with
a slash command very quickly.
And this is the power of that ChatOps workflow,
is you can really cut down on the amount
of time you spend context switching to
grab information that's
available via api anyways.